 1.介绍家乡
My hometown is ChenZhou,where I grow up with my families.
ChenZhou is famous for its Nonferrous Metals.(Metals other than iron, manganese, chromium and their alloys)
Ten years ago,It was a remote small city.The economy is backward and the transportation is underdeveloped.
Since the high-speed railway, the development speed has gradually increased.
The tertiary industry is gradually rising and facilitate a happier life for people.
I love my hometown.

2.兴趣爱好*
In my spare time,I wuold like to enjoy musics or get some exercise,
recently my favourite music genre is pure music.
For exercise I usually run in my school playground .some time I will play badminton with my roommates.
I think music and exercise can release my pressures and unload my minds.
3.优点*
有耐心，做事认真负责，善于与他人沟通。	
适应能力强，能够很快学习并应用新知识，新模型。	
足够自律，能够很好调节学习与娱乐的时间。
My strengths are as follows.
Patient and responsible,and  good at communicating with others.  	
Strong adaptability, able to learn and apply new knowledge quickly
and I also Self discipline which can well regulate the time of study and entertainment.

4.缺点*
看我的脸就知道，我比较胖。平时坐着的时候比较多，缺乏一定的运动。自从开始考研，专注于学习专业知识的同时，
也开始逐渐重视自己的健康，每周都会有一二次锻炼。每次锻炼通常都是在学校操场边听歌边跑步，偶尔和室友一起打羽毛球。
As my face shows, I'm a little fat. Lack of exercise at ordinary times. But since the beginning of postgraduate entrance examination, 
while focusing on learning professional knowledge,
I also began to pay more attention to my health and exercise once or twice a week. 
I usually run while listening to songs on the school playground, 
and occasionally play badminton with my roommate.
I will also exercise in the Postgraduate period.

5.最敬佩的人
我最敬佩的是我高中语文老师。他是一个非常有人文精神并且正直的人。
在我看来，所有学科最终都是为了造就人类美好生活，计算机也不例外。
我希望我能像他一样，无论是教书育人，还是科研，抑或是工作，都怀着为社会做贡献的精神。
I admire my Chinese teacher most in high school. He is a man of great humanism and integrity.
In my opinion, all disciplines are ultimately to create a better life for mankind, and computers are no exception.
I hope I can be like him, whether teaching and educating people, scientific research or work, 
with the spirit of contributing to the society.

6.喜欢的书
我最喜欢的书是《具体数学》。大一一次偶然的机会，我看到了推荐它的文章，然后我在网上买下了它。
书中讲解了许多计算机科学中用到的数学知识和技巧，教你如何把一个实际问题一步步演化为数学模型，然后通过计算机解决它。
它非常具有学术性，所以很难看懂。我大学期间一共看了三次，前两次都是看到一半。第三次才勉强能够看懂部分知识。
以后我还会经常研读这本书，希望我能了解它的所有知识。
My favorite book is concrete mathematics. By chance, I saw the article recommending it, and then I bought it online.
The book explains many mathematical knowledge and skills used in computer science, 
and teaches you how to evolve a practical problem into a mathematical model step by step, and then solve it by computer.
It is very academic and difficult to understand. 
I saw half of the first two times and was barely able to understand part of the knowledge until the third time.
In the future, I will often study this book. I hope I can understand all its knowledge.

7.做过的重要选择
从小到大，我做过很多选择，但是有的选择的好处还没有显现。我只能说目前我受到了益处的选择。
它应该是我初中时转到了一个新学校。遇到了优秀的老师。他们使我对数学和物理产生了极大的兴趣。
虽然无论是高考还是考研初试，我的数学发挥都失常了，但我依然热爱数学。
我相信这份热爱会贯穿我的一生。
Until now, I have made many choices, but the benefits of some choices have not yet appeared. 
I can only say the choice that I have received benefits.
It should be that I transferred to a new school in junior high school. Met two excellent teachers.
They made me interested in mathematics and physics.
Although my math performance has been abnormal in both the college entrance examination 
and the postgraduate entrance examination, I still love math.
I believe this love will penetrate my life.
*追问：选择学校主要靠父母选择？
是的，但是如果自己不想去新环境的话，父母强迫也不会有好结果。
Yes, but if you don't want to go to the new environment, it will not have a good result if they force you to go.

8.毕业论文（注重与老师讨论的内容）*

9.本科院校
我在湖南科技大学读的本科。坐落于湖南湘潭，毛泽东的故乡。在过去的三年多时间里
很多事情都给我留下了深刻印象。美丽的校园、优秀负责的老师、校外小吃街的美食以及食堂阿姨们的友善。
虽然它没那么有名，但是它带给我很多美好回忆，是它造就了现在的我。
I studied as an undergraduate in Hunan University of science and technology. 
Located in Xiangtan,the hometown of Mao Zedong. 
In the past three years, many things have left a deep impression on me. 
The beautiful campus, excellent and responsible teachers, 
the delicious food in the snack street outside the school and the friendliness of the canteen aunts.
Although it is not so famous, it brings me a lot of good memories. It makes me who I am now.

10.最喜欢的课程
我最喜欢的课程是数据结构。一方面老师教的好、带动了我的兴趣。一方面是我喜欢思考问题的解决方法。
所以我参加了两年ACM/ICPC集训队，锻炼自己解决问题的能力。取得了一些成果。
直到现在，我有空依然会参与一些oj的比赛，活跃自己的思维。
My favorite course is data structure. Mainly because the teacher taught well and promoted my interest. 
I also like to think about ways to solve problems.
So I participated in ACM / ICPC training team for two years to train my ability to solve problems. Some results have been achieved.
Until now, I will still participate in some OJ competitions and activate my thinking.
11.如何处理压力
面对压力的时候，我会先停一停当前的事。冷静地想一想，是什么给了我压力，我是否能承受？
比如最近这一个月我都有挺大压力，比较焦虑。因为我的初试成绩不太理想，对自己复试能否发挥好也保持怀疑。
有时甚至难以入睡。后来仔细分析自身状况，明确自己的优缺点。没有面试经历的我在这个月找了几家企业面试岗位。
知道自己当前需要什么之后，压力也就化为了动力。
In the face of pressure, I will stop what I am doing first. Think about it calmly. What gives me pressure? Can I bear it?
For example, this month I have a lot of pressure and anxiety. 
Because my initial test results are not ideal, I doubt whether I can play well in the second test.
Sometimes it's even hard to sleep. Later, I carefully analyzed my own situation and made clear my advantages and disadvantages.
 Without interview experience, I found several enterprises to interview this month to improve my competitiveness.
When you know what you need right now, stress turns into motivation.

12.印象深刻的比赛 活动经历*
大学期间，我参加了两年的ACM集训队，来提升我的思维能力和竞争力。在2019年，我参加了CCPC。
这是我第一次参加程序设计竞赛。虽然没有取得良好的成绩，但是它开启了我对竞赛热爱。
直到现在，我有时也会参加网络上的小比赛。
During college, I participated in the ACM training team for two years to improve my thinking ability and competitiveness.
In 2019 ,I participated in the CCPC-National Invitational Contest with two others.
This is my first time to participate in the programming competition. 
Although I didn't get good results, it opened my love for competition.
Until now, I sometimes participate in small competitions on the Internet.

13.为什么选择本校本专业*
选择软件工程是因为我本科也是软件工程专业，我想继续深入这个领域。对软件工程有更加系统的了解。
对于为什么选择深圳大学。首先是因为我想在深圳学习和生活，与这个年轻城市中来自世界各地的人打交道。
其次是，深圳大学有充足的资金，不会因为没有科研设备或者低质量的生活环境而影响学习和科研。
I chose software engineering because I am also a software engineering major at the undergraduate stage. 
I want to continue to go deep into this field. Have a more systematic understanding of software engineering.
Why did you choose Shenzhen University. 
First of all, I want to study and live in Shenzhen and deal with people from all over the world in this young city.
Secondly, Shenzhen University has sufficient funds and will not affect learning and scientific research 
because of lack of scientific research equipment or low-quality living environment.

14.研究生期间规划*
If I am luckily admitted,i will try my best to finish all the courses as planned.
At the same time I will start reading papers and doing some academic research with the seniors and my mentor.
And then, finish my graduation thesis ,take part in internships,and prepare for my future employment.
If chance given, I will fight for a PhD.
I believe my post-graduation life would be enriched and meaningful.

15.研究生学习可能遇到的挑战*
挑战可能会有很多，比如关系处理，与老师、与同学、与室友。但我认为最难的是科研。首先要理解专业知识，然后还需要提出创新。
这期间会出现很多问题，但我不会感到恐惧。面对挑战，我会积极与我的导师沟通交流，询问老师的建议。同时，我还会积极与学长学姐沟通，学习经验。
专注在自己感兴趣的问题上，并不会感到害怕和无聊。
There may be many challenges。
But I think the hardest thing is scientific research. In order to solve it, 
I need to understand professional knowledge, and then I need to put forward innovation.
There will be many problems during this period, but I won't be afraid. In the face of challenges, 
I will actively communicate with my mentor and ask for suggestions. 
At the same time, I will also communicate with senior studentsto learn experience.
Focusing on what i'm interested in ,i don't feel afraid and bored.

16.学费如何解决
如果我有幸被录取，我会非常珍惜这个机会，并且在研究生期间努力学习，争取获得奖学金
另外，我的父母非常支持我读研，他们在物质上和精神上都给予我很大的帮助
也会帮我支付部分学费。同时，如果有合适的兼职，我会考虑去做，
因为者能够锻炼我与人沟通的能力和社会实践的能力。
If i am lucky enough to be admitted,I will cherish this opportunity and study hard during
the postgraduate period to obtain the scholarship.What's more, 
my parents are very supportive of my study both materially and spiritually,
and they will also help me pay part of my tuition.
At the same time if there is a suitable part-time job in my spare time,I will take it into consideration
because it will benefit me a lot for my interpersonal communication and social practice skills.

17.读研和本科的区别*
我认为 本科主要是接触计算机领域中基础性的科目。系统了解计算机，同时，也会入门一些前沿性的学科。
例如我本科就学习过大数据、人工智能、数据挖掘等更加深奥的科目。
而研究生阶段需要更加全面、更加系统的了解前沿学科。同时对自学能力和科研能力的要求更高。
读研期间，学习知识的同时，也要提高自身综合素质，努力成为更加优秀的人。
I think the undergraduate course is mainly to contact the elementary subjects in the computer field and systematically understand the computer. 
At the same time, it will also introduce some more profound subjects.such as big data, artificial intelligence and data mining.
The graduate stage needs a more comprehensive and systematic understanding of these subjects. 
At the same time, the requirements for self-study ability and scientific research ability are higher.
During postgraduate study, while learning knowledge, I should also improve my comprehensive quality and strive to become a better person.


18.父母如何看待考研
my parents are very supportive of my study both materially and spiritually,
when they were young, they did not have the idea of further study. 
Utill they enter the society.So they hope I can learn ample knowlegde.
I am grateful for their love and support,and I hope I can pass the exam and live up to their expectations.

19.没考上的打算*
首先，我坚信我能考上。但是如果我真的没考上，我并不会气馁。我会先找一份工作，不靠父母养活自己。在工作的同时，我不会忘记学习，
我会边工作边考研。我认为读研是对自身综合素质的提高，我不会放弃。
First of all, I firmly believe that I can pass the exam. But if I really don't pass the exam, I won't be depressed. 
I will find a job first and not rely on my parents to support myself. At the same time, I will not forget to study,
I will take the postgraduate entrance examination while working. 
I think it is a improvement of my comprehensive quality. 
I won't give up.

20.是否考虑读博*
我考虑过。但是我的家人和我对博士都没有一个完整的概念。在大学期间，我并不清楚博士对应的科研水平、英语能力、综合素质的要求。
所以，我想在我研究生阶段逐渐了解科研的日常，并提高自身综合素质。如果日后达到了博士的要求，我会考虑读博。
Well，I thought about it. But both  my family and I haven't a complete concept of doctor(Ph.D). 
When I was in college, I didn't know the requirements of doctor's scientific research level, English ability and comprehensive quality.
Therefore, I want to gradually understand the daily life of scientific research 
and improve my comprehensive quality during my Postgraduate period.
If I meet the requirements of a doctor in the future, I will consider about it.
